dagster_cloud.yaml guide (#13646)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/dagster-cloud/managing-deployments/dagster-cloud-yaml.mdx

Parameter reference table:

| Parameter                            | Description                                                                           | Data type            |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| `locations.location_name`            | The name of your code location that will appear in the Dagster UI code locations page | string               |
| `locations.code_source.package_name` | Use if your dagster code is structured as a package                                   | string (folder name) |
| `locations.code_source.python_file`  | Use if your dagster code is in a single file                                          | string (.py file)    |
| `locations.code_source.module_name`  | The module that contains your dagster code (which matches pyproject.toml)                                            | string (module name) |

> Example for a single code location:

Author: ok will do

```yaml
#dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
```

Example for multiple code locations:

```yaml
#dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
  - location_name: machine_learning
    code_source:
      python_file: ml/ml_model.py
```

> ## Configuring your working directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Working directory
```

Let's keep the heading convention consistent throughout the doc

There might be some cases where you want to run your Dagster code from a different directory than the root of your code repository. You can specify the directory you want to run your Dagster code from in the dagster_cloud.yaml file using the `working_directory` option.

Parameter reference table:

| Parameter           | Description                                            | Data type     |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------- |

> | `working_directory` | The path of the directory that Dagster should run from | string (path) |

Reviewer: I'm not gonna suggest a description re-write for this until we know what it does, but just marking this so we come back to it after it's been tested.

```yaml
#dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
    working_directory: ./project_directory
```

## Build directory

> Setting a build directory is useful if your setup.py or requirements.txt is not at your project root but in a subdirectory. This is common if you have multiple python packages within a single dagster project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting a build directory is useful if your `setup.py` or `requirements.txt` is in a subdirectory instead of the project root. This is common if you have multiple Python packages within a single Dagster project.
```

Formatting and capitalization.

> The build registry is applicable to hybrid deployments only.

Reviewer: You should lead with this - if I'm using Serverless I can then just skip right over this section instead of reading it to find out it isn't applicable to me.

Parameter reference table:

| Parameter                   | Description                                                                                                                                                       | Data type                |
| --------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------ |

> | `locations.build.directory` | The directory in your project code that you want to deploy, the default is `.`. If you have sub-folders you can specific the path to only deploy that sub-project | string (path)            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `locations.build.directory` | The path to the directory in your project that you want to deploy; the default is `.`. If there are subdirectories, you can specify the path to only deploy a specific project directory. | string            |
```

We'll update the formatting here once we apply the file template (in reference to the default value)

> | `locations.build.registry`  | The Docker registry to push your code location to in the registry (Hybrid only)                                                                                   | string (docker registry) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `locations.build.registry`  | The Docker registry to push your code location to.                                                                              | string |
```

Removing `(Hybrid only)` as you stated before this that this entire section is applicable only to Hybrid.

I'm also suggesting we remove `in the registry` because it felt redundant, but if it changes the meaning of the sentence, ignore that part. My thinking is this already says we're pushing it to a Docker registry, so 'in the registry' was duplicative.

Example:

```yaml

> #dagster_cloud.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# dagster_cloud.yaml
```

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
    build:
      directory: ./
      registry: your-docker-image-registry/image-name
```

> ## Python Executable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Python executable
```

Sentence case for headings and titles

> If you are using Dagster Cloud Serverless, the Python executable to use is specified [here](https://docs.dagster.io/dagster-cloud/deployment/serverless#using-a-different-python-version). For Dagster Cloud Hybrid, the python executable that is installed globally in the image, or the default Python executable on the local system if you use the local agent, will be used. If you want to use a different python executable, you can specify it in the dagster_cloud.yaml file. It might also be useful to have different python executables for different code locations.

Reviewer: I think we can rework this paragraph a bit to make the important parts stand out - for example:

> Depending on the [deployment type](/dagster-cloud/deployment) you're using, the `executable_path` parameter does different things:
>
> - **Serverless** - [copy - see my second comment about this]
> - **Hybrid** - If using a [local agent](/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/local), this specifies the default Python executable to use on the local system. If using other [agent types](/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents), this specifies the Python executable installed globally in the image.
>  If using multiple code locations, you can specify a different Python executable for each location.

Reviewer: For the Serverless copy - I'm not sure what I'm supposed to take away from what the link points to. What should I change this value to, if anything?

Author: updated so don't think this comment is relevant anymore but will leave it in for now

Parameter reference table:

| Parameter                   | Description                            | Data type     |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | ------------- |

> | `locations.executable_path` | The location of your python executable | string (path) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `locations.executable_path` | The file path of the Python executable to use.  | string |
```

```yaml

> #dagster_cloud.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# dagster_cloud.yaml
```

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
    executable_path: venvs/path/to/dataengineering_spark_team/bin/python
  - location_name: machine_learning
    code_source:
      python_file: ml_model.py
    executable_path: venvs/path/to/ml_tensorflow/bin/python
```

> ## Container Contexts 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## Container context
```

> Dagster Cloud Hybrid agents support additional configuration options which can be configured using `container_context`. Depending on your hybrid deployment, the configuration settings under `container_context` will vary. For more information 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using Hybrid deployment, you can define additional configuration options for code locations using 
the `container_context` parameter. Depending on the Hybrid agent you're using, the configuration settings under `container_context` will vary.

Refer to the configuration reference for your agent for more info: 
```

---

> title: Confiuguration options for dagster_cloud.yaml | Dagster Docs

Reviewer 2: typo

description: How to use dagster_cloud.yaml to configure Dagster Cloud
---

> # Dagster_cloud.yaml Guide

Reviewer 2: s/Dagster/dagster?

<Note>This guide is applicable to Dagster Cloud.</Note>

> This dagster_cloud.yaml file is used to configure how a code location should be build and deployed to Dagster Cloud, usually as part of CI/CD. The file is required to tell Dagster where the code sources are to load into Dagster Cloud but has other options as well. For Hybrid Deployments, secrets are configured in this file as well since those secrets are part of the code location.

Reviewer 2: s/a code location/one or more code locations ?

Reviewer 2: "but has other options as well" is a little vague, maybe leave that out or go into more detail about what they are?

## Where to put the dagster_cloud.yaml file

> The dagster_cloud.yaml file should be placed in your dagster project's repository root. Below is an example of a file structure from the [Dagster cloud ETL quickstart](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/quickstart_etl).

Reviewer 2: Maybe specify Github repository (lots of other repositories out there)

```shell
quickstart_etl
├── README.md
├── quickstart_etl
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── assets
├── quickstart_etl_tests
├── dagster_cloud.yaml
├── pyproject.toml
├── setup.cfg
└── setup.py
```

## Code Locations

> The only **mandatory** section in the dagster_cloud.yaml file is setting up your code locations. If you have multiple code locations, you will have multiple code locations within a single dagster_cloud.yaml file. Dagster code can be sourced from a package, a python file, or a module, and one of these parameters should be specified for each code location.

Reviewer 2: I think we are describing both the top-level `locations` key and the `code_source` key within each location here in a way that might be confusing.

Consider something like: "The only **mandatory** section in the dagster_cloud.yaml file is the `locations` key that specifies a list of code locations that should be deployed to Dagster Cloud. Each item in the list of locations must also include a `location_name` key that specifies the name of a location and a `code_source` key that specifies where to find the definitions in the code location.

Realizing i just basically replicated shalabh's comment below

Parameter reference table:

| Parameter                            | Description                                                                           | Data type            |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- |

> | `locations.location_name`            | The name of your code location that will appear in the Dagster UI code locations page | string               |

Reviewer 2: nit: s/code locations/Code Locations since it references the tab/page

Author: i was referencing the levels thought - i think code locations might suggest they write `code locations` in the yaml vs locations

Author: updated

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
```

Example for multiple code locations:

```yaml
#dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
  - location_name: machine_learning
    code_source:
      python_file: ml/ml_model.py
```

## Configuring your working directory

There might be some cases where you want to run your Dagster code from a different directory than the root of your code repository. You can specify the directory you want to run your Dagster code from in the dagster_cloud.yaml file using the `working_directory` option.

Parameter reference table:

| Parameter           | Description                                            | Data type     |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------- |
| `working_directory` | The path of the directory that Dagster should run from | string (path) |

```yaml
#dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
    working_directory: ./project_directory
```

## Build directory

> Build directory is useful if your setup.py or requirements.txt is not at your project root but in a subdirectory. This is common if you have multiple python packages within a single dagster project.

Reviewer 2: s/Build directory/setting a build directory

> The build registry is applicable to hybrid deployments only

Reviewer 2: nit missing period

| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| `locations.location_name`            | The name of your code location that will appear in the Dagster UI code locations page | string               |
| `locations.code_source.package_name` | Use if your dagster code is structured as a package                                   | string (folder name) |
| `locations.code_source.python_file`  | Use if your dagster code is in a single file                                          | string (.py file)    |
| `locations.code_source.module_name`  | The module that contains your dagster code                                            | string (module name) |

Example for a single code location:

```yaml
#dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
```

Example for multiple code locations:

```yaml
#dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
  - location_name: machine_learning
    code_source:
      python_file: ml_model.py
```

> ## Configuring your working directory

Reviewer 2: That excellent comment still applies to the current copy here i think - "where you run your Dagster code from" is a bit different (I don't think the 'working_directory' field is very clearly named - it sounds like it should be what you wrote here but it isn't, it strictly applies to imports). I think, confusingly, that setting the build directory might actually be much closer to that description, but i'm actually not positive. @shalabhc maybe we should run some tests to make sure that even we know exactly how working_directory and build.directory interact, I recall some confusing stuff there

> ## Configuring your working directory

Author: @shalabhc yeah i think testing this out would be good prior to publishing this

> ## Configuring your working directory

Reviewer 3: OK I'm looking into how this works.

> ## Configuring your working directory

Author: updated based on what i tested

## Where to put the dagster_cloud.yaml file

The dagster_cloud.yaml file should be placed in your dagster project's repository root. Below is an example of a file structure from the [Dagster cloud ETL quickstart](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/quickstart_etl).

```shell
quickstart_etl
├── README.md
├── quickstart_etl
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── assets
├── quickstart_etl_tests
├── dagster_cloud.yaml
├── pyproject.toml
├── setup.cfg
└── setup.py
```

## Code Source

The only **mandatory** section in the dagster_cloud.yaml file is setting up your code locations. If you have multiple code locations, you will have multiple code locations within a single dagster_cloud.yaml file. Dagster code can be sourced from a package, a python file, or a module, and one of these parameters should be specified for each code location.

Parameter reference table:

| Parameter                            | Description                                                                           | Data type            |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- |

> | `locations.location_name`            | The name of your code location that will appear in the Dagster UI code locations page | string               |

Reviewer 3: no other top level options - 'locations' is the only one.

> | `locations.location_name`            | The name of your code location that will appear in the Dagster UI code locations page | string               |

Author: ok so i can remove that
